Understanding the Data

    From Understanding to Preparation

        Data Understanding
            - What does it mean to "prepare" or "clean" data?
        Data Preparation
            - What are ways in which data is prepared?


    Case Study - Understanding the data

        Descriptive statistics
            Univariate statistics
            Pairwise correlations
            Histogram

    Case Study - Looking at data quality

        Data quality
            - Missing values
            - Invalid or misleading values.

    Case study - This is an iterative process

        Iterative data collection and understanding
            - Refined definition of CHF admission.

    Data preparation - Cleansing Data

            Transforming data to be easier to work with

    Using domain knowledge

         Feature Engineering - the process of using domain knowledge of the data to create features that make the machinelearning algorithms work.

    Working with text analysis


    Case Study - Data Preparation

    Actually define Congested Heart Failure

    1. Set of diagnosis
    2. CHF is only one type of heart failure

    Defining readmission.

    1. Timing of events are evaluated whether one is an index admission or first time or not.


    Case Study -  Defining CHF admission

        Define CFF admission and CHF Readmission

    Case Study - Aggregating records

        Transactional records
            - Claims: professional provider, facility, pharmaceutical
            - Inpatient and outpatient records: diagnoses, procedures, prescriptions, etc.
            - Possibly thousands per patient depending on clinical history.

    Aggregating to patient level

        Roll up to 1 record per patient
        Create new columns representing the transaction
        Outpatients visits/Inpatient episodes: frequency, recency,
        diagnoses/ length of stay, procesdures and prescriptions.
        Comorbidities with CHF

    More or less data needed?

        Literature review of important factors for CHF readmission

        Loop back to data collection stage and add additional data, if needed.

    Completing the data set

        Merge all data into one table
            - One record per patient
            - List of variables used in modeling
                - Target: CHF readmission with 30 days (Yes/No), following discharge from CHF hospitalization.

    Using training sets
     Cohort: 2,343 patients

     Randomly divided into training and testing sets: 70% / 30% split.

     Training: 1,640 patients
     Testing: 703 patients
